---
layout: page
title: "History"
category: wip
date: 2013-06-18 22:56:36
---

### Overview

The `history` package provides simple version control-like facilities for Avocado's query structures: `DataContext`, `DataView`, and `DataQuery`. Each change that is made to an object produces a _revision_. This history of changes acts effectively as a persistent _undo stack_.

The API is kept simple to intentionally prevent being a full blown Version Control System (VCS) for the data. Changes can be _committed_ which produce a revision. Thats it. Each revision contains the full structure, not just the diff (although the diff can be generated). Previous revisions can be reapplied, which itself produces a new revision. There is no going _back_ to a revision, only reapplying a previous revision.

### Settings

- `HISTORY_ENABLED` - Enable default history tracking and behavior of Avocado query structures. This includes `DataContext`, `DataView` and `DataQuery` instances. Default is `True`.
- `HISTORY_MAX_SIZE` - Maximum history size for a given instance. If an integer is specified, entries beyond the cutoff will be culled when `avocado history --cull` command is executed. Default is `None`.

_If `HISTORY_MAX_SIZE` is defined, it is recommended to setup a cronjob that executes the `avoacdo history --cull` command._

### API

Models can be registered which connect them to `post-save` and `pre-delete` signal receivers.

```python
from avocado import history

# If fields is not defined, all local, editable, non-relational fields are
# included. Excluded fields take precedence over included fields.
history.register(MyModel, fields=(...), exclude=(...))
```

This will create a revision whenever an instance of `MyModel` is saved and has changed from the previous revision.

For manual revisioning, the `Revision` manager can be used.

```python
from avocado.history import Revision

Revision.objects.create_revision(obj, fields=(...))
```
