---
layout: page
title: "Settings"
category: doc
date: 2013-06-10 09:56:59
---

Avocado settings are defined as a dictionary, named `AVOCADO`, with each key corresponding to a setting listed below:

```python
AVOCADO = {
    'SIMPLE_TYPE_MAP': { ... },
    'ENUMERABLE_MAXIMUM': 50,
    ...
}
```

#### SIMPLE_TYPE_MAP

`DataField` datatypes from Avocado's perspective are used purely as metadata for the purposes of making the underlying data accessible.

This setting is used to customize what is returned by the `f.simple_type` property. The default datatype comes from the internal datatype of a the model field's `get_internal_type()` method. Any of these default datatypes can be mapped to some other datatype.

Datatypes in this context should be simple, for example not differentiating between `int`, `float`, or `Decimal`. They are all just numbers, to that is the datatype.

These datatypes help define how input is validated and which operators are allowed.

#### OPERATOR_MAP

A mapping between the client-friendly datatypes and sensible operators that will be used to validate a query condition. In many cases, these types support more operators than what are defined, but are not include because they are not commonly used.

#### INTERNAL_TYPE_FORMFIELDS

A general mapping of formfield overrides for all subclasses. the mapping is similar to the SIMPLE_TYPE_MAP, but the values reference internal formfield classes, that is integer -> IntegerField. in many cases, the validation performed may need to be a bit less restrictive than what the is actually necessary.

#### ENUMERABLE_MAXIMUM

The maximum number of distinct values allowed for setting the `enumerable` flag on `DataField` instances during the `init` process. This will only be applied to fields with non-text strings types and booleans.

#### HISTORY_ENABLED

Flag for enabling the history API.

#### HISTORY_MAX_SIZE

The maximum size of a user's history. If the value is an integer, this is the maximum number of allowed items in the user's history. Set to `None` (or 0) to enable unlimited history. Note, in order to enforce this limit, the `avocado history --prune` command must be executed to remove the oldest history from each user based on this value.

#### METADATA_MIGRATION_APP

The app that the metadata migrations will be created for. This must be defined to use the `avocado migration` command.

#### METADATA_FIXTURE_DIR

The directory where the metadata fixtures will be written to. If not defined, it will default to the fixtures directory in the app defined by `METADATA_MIGRATION_APP`.

#### METADATA_FIXTURE_SUFFIX

The _suffix_ of the metadata fixtures. Default is `avocado_metadata`.

#### METADATA_MIGRATION_SUFFIX

The _suffix_ of the South migration scripts for migrating the metadata. Default is `avocado_metadata_migration`.

#### QUERY_PROCESSORS

A dict of query processors class imports by name.
